okay I'm gonna demonstrate for you how I
rigged up my nymph rigs here in the
Deschutes River using the depth screw
magnetic weights and the depth screw
balloon indicators first I have my two
flies on I'd like to use two smaller
flies so I need a lot of weight I don't
like to use a big heavy fly and a
smaller one I have better luck with
smaller flies so I'm using two of those
so I'm gonna rig up fairly heavy weights
on this first thing I'll do is you grab
a set of the magnetic weights out of the
container back and then I'll take the
stack of a add on weight so I'll put
them on my finger step to use to add on
weight as I fish remove the nut from the
screw and then I'll put the post on line
line just a few inches above my first
fly put the nut back on and that'll be
tight on the line move there's already
some weight in there but I'm gonna start
with a couple of additional weights add
one on add two on as you can see I can
add and subtract weight that's pretty
easily and they won't cast off maybe
I'll start with three and if I want to
adjust where the weights are on the line
I just loosen and pull to a different
spots and then tighten it back up so
that's the weight system as I said I've
got all my extras right here ready to go
now I'm gonna put out my strike
indicator
this is the patent-pending depth screw
valved adjustable strike indicator
inside the bottle you have several posts
and replacement balloons as well first
thing I'll do is remove the posts and
that's a strike indicator before it's
inflated I'll remove the retaining clasp
similar to the weights you've got a slit
screw and I'll pull the bottle back out
and screw the indicator on to the bottle
which also acts as a pump and I'll pump
it up to the desired size there's a
little air inlet hole in the back of the
bottle you have to cover with your
finger if you'd like to take care out
after you you plump it up you can use a
little needle on the bottle to also let
air out pump it back up once the balloon
has been inflated a couple of times it
stretches out and you should be able to
blow it up with your mouth as well but
the bottles designed to help those that
have a hard time blowing the balloons up
with their mouth man put that on to the
line on the butt section by placing the
line through the slit just like with the
weights and then I'll screw the
indicator on to the post and
pinches the line in between the seat and
the screw and it's attached really to
the line it's not going to move at all
if you do want to adjust where it is on
the line
simply release me
a half a turn or turn so slide it to the
desired location and then tighten it
back down so I'll toss it out there and
see what it looks like riding on the
water that's a little bit smaller than I
usually use it for steelhead but you see
what that looks like
oh my god I got a fish cast upstream now
the nice thing about both the weight and
the indicators that are easy to adjust
I'll show you how I do that again on the
weights I need to add weight like right
there I feel like I'm not deep enough I
just pull off a couple more weights snap
them on and I'm vision not worried at
all about them falling off how to
demonstrate how strong they are
live it pretty hard steeple cast and
they're not coming off I'll even do a
couple overhead cast here for you and
either all the weights are still on
there now the indicator if I'm unhappy
with the visual effect or the placement
of line I just unscrew it slide it to
the right location tighten it back up if
I want to change the size of it I can
either use the bottle or I can just blow
in my mouth like so a little bit bigger
struggle with that put some more air in
it using the bottle
or let air out as I said you can see the
clap he's still on the line where I
place it before put the indicator back
on
we catch fish here the oblong shape of
the balloon makes it ride a little
higher in water than a normal trap there
come on fish Oh anyway so that's that's
the system the patented depth screw
attachment system on both the magnetic
weights and the valves adjustable
balloon indicators